The way I see it, there are two spiritual paths. A "spiritual path" concerns ultimate purpose. Its the big question of why we're here. Broadly speaking, these two paths are eastern and western, but its more complicated than that. The "eastern" path is this: unify with the ground of being. The "western" path is this: grow in communion with the transcendent source of being. Both are impenitrable positions philosophically speaking. I've learned that the only way to intellectually determine which is correct is through meta-analytical "tensions", ie assessing which "story" makes more intuitive sense, whether I see liberated beings or Saints as superior, the lifestyle of practitioners, how ideal the spiritual progression is, etc. (whatever path emphasizes being a "normal" person is better in my eyes). It's not a matter of technical, definitive takedowns at this point. Another angle of assessment is which spiritual path my experience conforms to. West wins hands-down. 

I'm the type of person who has trouble staying interested in things. I don't have many hobbies, theres no career path that interests me, I get bored online almost immediately these days. The only thing that has captured my attention and fascinated me endlessly for years is the idea of ultimate purpose, and discovering what that is and seeking to fulfill it. I've probably spent north of 10,000 hours over 8 years writing about it on my computer and phone, which isn't counting the amount of time I spend outside of that in contemplation (I've only recently switched to github). I think my intense, desperate search for truth stems from very negative experiences I had when I was 18, which set me on this path. Depression basically. It's ultimately been a good thing I think. If I was more normal, I would definitely not have as rich an inner life.

I like the idea of the ultimate reason for existence being communion. An interesting thing I think about is that we talk about the relationship in very human-centric ways. Like if we evolved to be solitary creatures like tigers or something, I wonder what language framing we'd use, since we'd be less concerned with having a loving companion. Part of me wonders if tiger people would perfer eastern, and what that says about how arbirtrary this all is. That's why intellectually determining things is still important, not just vibes.

I recently had a crisis of "faith" in God after staring down into my dark basement when I was home alone. I got creeped out, and I jokingly said to myself that I was "sensing the presence of evil". It then hit me that maybe my experience of God was just the inverse of that feeling. That is, being so happy and content that you swear your in the presence of a benevolent entity. This was devistating because it rendered my experiences easily explainable as merely a psychological quirk. I was indeed feeling a presence, but it was like the inverse of being alone in the woods at night and swearing something is with you. It's hard to overstate how significant this problem is, because my entire spritual life hinged on it. The saints offered no answer. All they said was if the experience bore fruit then it was from God. Mine do, but that didn't really help dispel my concerns. The answer, I found, was being more precise in how I contextualized my experience. I wasn't "sensing the presence of God", I was "becoming conscious of the divinity that underlies everything". This language totally validates things and is awesome.

A super super big tension I've had for years is eternality. I believe death is the end of complex consciousness, and so heaven or reincarnation are not things I subscribe to. This is a problem because the spiritual path MUST reconcile death. This is where the eastern path wins. If the point of my life is to experience the fullness of being (undifferentiated unity), then after I do that I can die fulfilled and at peace. If I'm meant to continuously grow in communion with God, then dying doesn't make a lot of sense. Im on board with getting around death through technology (for the sake of communion), but eventually the universe will become uninhabitable. Now, on a meta, meta level this problem doesn't matter, because I believe when it comes to ultimate purpose, what is most ideal will be the case. If dying is more ideal then I'll be fine with it. If living indefinitely is more ideal then I'll be fine with that. But I'd like to know. I've done some research, and truthfully we don't know how exotic life can get. We could get to the point where we're feeding off quantum fluctuations, and we could do that indefinitely, for example. There are other interesting ideas, but the point I guess is that eternal communion could be possible.

Christianity is very close to my heart. I ultimately do not believe in the trinity though. It's really difficult having to seperate myself from the tradition, but I believe I'm doing it out of integrity. I have criticisms of Christianity obviously, but it doesn't feel right talking about them. Jesus Christ, St. Teresa of Avila, Meister Eckhart, St. John of the Cross, Pseudo-Dionysius--these guys are my heroes. I will try to the best of my abilities to maintain a postive relationship with Christians and Christianity.

The nature of fate, and the way I've framed it, makes it difficult for me to know if sharing my idea with others is the right thing to do. The game-theorizing I've been doing is insane (am I meant to guarantee salvation for everyone by merging consiousnesses with them neon genesis style (each person could actually see it as themselves saving everyone else)). The problem is that its true, but from my perspective, its effectively false for everyone else. I would be providing false hope to people, sort of. Another problem is that a lot of people will definitely not be able to handle fate intellectually, and they might rationalize unhealthy lifestyles. I also can't imagine what it'd be like for someone who holds my views to get to the end of their life, halfway down the spiritual path, knowing they will die, and knowing that they didn't fulfill their purpose, which consequently means that what they believed was incorrect, and their life and immense suffering was in fact pointless. Putting people through that is diabolical. I would do unholy things to spite the universe if I was in that situation. We obviously can't have that. Suffice to say, teaching people about fate is a dangerous thing to do. And once the genie is out of the bottle, you can't put it back in. Sometimes I just think, fuck it, just tell people and don't worry about the consequences, it's not your fault if they can't handle it. Sometimes I think its something I'm meant to do. To be more precise, living in my ideal timeline entails that I would have the directive and means to serve others. Actually articulating the correct spiritual path, as well as the symbology of my actual name, is evidence of that in my eyes.

I know that I must eventually become more serious with things and start sharing my ideas with people. I've thought a lot about how to do that the correct way. I want to push something like platonism, in the sense of a cohesive metaphysical framework with spiritual elements, not something like a religion. I don't understand why nobody does plato-style philosophy anymore (the guy who does analytical idealism might count as that actually). I've really been waiting until I've settled on a definitive position. I will know when that happens when I stop editing the text for at least a month. This is not something that should be rushed.

One thing I will say about Christianity is that it's overpopulated with ideas. For example, there is an absolutely perfect metaphor for communion which most people are completely ignorant of. Its like you are a sword that gets placed into a kiln. The sword heats up and takes on the heat of the kiln without actually becoming fire. My experience is exactly that. I start feeling the heat of the kiln, aka my heart fills with God's love, aka I become aware of the divinity that underlies everything and it overwhelms me and changes me. Now despite this perfect metaphor, 99.999% of normie Christians think that they're supposed to zealously fill themselves with love for God, and that itself is communion. As if they are supposed to be their own source of heat. FUCK THAT completely. It actually makes me mad. You're supposed to be in absolute obsession and fascination with God, like he's an incomprehensible Lovecraftian entity that you worship with your whole being.
