The multiplicity and complexity of our world are merely the diffused essence of pure, unitive simplicity. To help illustrate this, consider how sophisticated theorems are derived from basic axioms, how rich experiences interweave primordial qualia, and how every possible configuration of matter is rooted in a small set of elementary particles. In each of these cases, simplicity serves as the ontological basis for more advanced categories, distinctions, and attributes.

Three equivalent natures emanate from the ineffable heart of being--namely behavior, experience, and intelligibility. Behavior is that which can be observed, quantified, measured, and predicted. Speaking in these terms, fields constitute our universe. Excitations in these fields reflect mental activity, or experiences, which accordingly range in complexity from individual particles to entire nervous systems. Crucially, we could not even begin to discuss these things if they were not also intelligible in essence. Intelligibility is of course the truth, pattern, and order that defines reality.

The particular physical configuration of our universe happend to elevate your personal stream of consciousness from commonplace matter to the level of human awareness. Given the corporeal scarcity of higher-order minds, this is a privilege that defies all probabilistic expectations. One plausible way to explain it can be found in the MWI, a theory which posits the existence of countless branching timelines--of which you only perceive one. The timeline perceived would then have to be the one in which you come to know pure being. That way, all streams of consciousness would realize their full potential within their respective timelines, rendering your existential circumstances ordinary, unprivileged, and expected.

Detachment from all derivative identities is the long path toward pure being. These include outcomes, possessions, beliefs, pleasures, pains, desires, and the ego. Fortunately, opportunities to let go will arise constantly in day to day life, meaning you can consciously choose to align with the natural way of things. Having advanced knowledge of your fate also helps in this regard.

In short, the ground of being is a unitive simplicity beyond all form, you are destined to experience this simplicity, and you find purpose in seeking this end.