The fundamental nature of existence is best described as a pure simplicity--beyond all categories, distinctions, and attributes--while the variety and complexity of the world are merely its diffused essence. To help illustrate this, consider how intricate theorems are extrapolated from foundational axioms, sophisticated experiences interweave primordial qualia, and every possible configuration of matter is rooted in a small set of elementary particles. 

Three equivalent categories of being emerge from the ineffable--namely behavior, experience, and intelligibility. Behavior is that which can be observed, quantified, measured, and predicted. Speaking in these terms, fields constitute our universe. Excitations in these fields reflect mental activity, or experiences, which accordingly range in complexity from individual particles to entire nervous systems. Crucially, we could not even begin to discuss these things if they were not also intelligible in nature. Intelligibility is of course the truth, pattern, and order that defines reality.

One's fate is to know pure being, as is evidenced by two basic observations. The first is that our universe is suitable for the creation of intelligent life. Physicists today estimate that if the values of the fundamental constants were variable, the probability of the cosmos being life-compatible by chance would be so astronomically low as to be zero. If there is one thing everyone can agree on, it's that we didn't just get lucky. However you account for it, the bottom line is that reality permits life--a fact which hits close to home.

This leads us into the second observation, which is simply that you are an intelligent life form. In other words, the particular physical configuration of our universe happened to elevate your personal stream of consciousness from commonplace matter to the level of human awareness. Given the corporeal scarcity and existential significance of higher-order minds, this is a degree of privilege that defies all probabilistic expectations. One plausible explanation for this phenomenon can be found in the MWI, a theory which posits the existence of countless branching timelines--of which you only perceive one. The timeline perceived would then be the one in which you come to know pure being. That way, every stream of consciousness realizes its full potential within its respective timeline, rendering the miracle of your humanity as ordinary, unprivileged, and expected. It must be said that uncovering the exact mechanism for this process is likely beyond the scope of a priori reasoning.

Detachment from all derivative identities is the long path toward pure being. These include outcomes, possessions, beliefs, pleasures, pains, desires, and the ego. Fortunately, opportunities to let go will arise constantly in day to day life, meaning you can consciously choose to align with the natural way of things. Having advanced knowledge of your fate also helps in this regard.
